Assumption: The Extended I/O feature, whereby bit 6 of C3 drives existence of
C4-C7, is above and beyond what is documented under Disk Devices in PDT.
This clouds the meaning of the EXTENDED bit in Disk commands where bit 6
of C3 is "0". When bit 6 of C3 is "1", this bit (bit 5 of C3) means that
C5-C7 are present, and if bit 6 of C4 is "1" (8-bit transfer) then C5-C7
are the transfer count, since a RM in memory cannot be trusted. However,
with bit 6 of C3 set to "0", as in documented Disk Device commands, EXTENDED
(in 6-bit transfer mode) is taken to mean that multiple physical records
may be transferred, until a RM is sensed.

When using RM termination, the results of the transfer may be determined
by examing CLC as follows:

	   [0] <---- A-field of PDT, SLC, initial CLC
	   ...
	   ...
	   ... <---- CLC anywhere before RM, "short read"
	   [n-1]
	RM [n] <---- CLC exactly here, media record size matches program
	   [n+1] <-- CLC here means media record was too large.


Formatting:

	There is no way to specify FLAG bits outside of the data stream.

	There is no way to specify the DL field outside of the data stream.
	The DL could be derived from the RM in memory, although that requires
	that the controller buffer the entire record before starting the write,
	or else it must scan the record from memory twice.

	Using the Address Register for formatting would require loading every record,
	unless it is auto-incrementing - but then log-phy record numbering is
	not possible (convenient).

	There is no way to specify the track (head/surface), unless that is
	directly taken from Address Register TT field. This may require
	updating Address Register in order to format. Or else Address Register
	is updated from data stream during format operations.

	FLAG bits "A-File" and "B-File" may relate to switches on the drive
	having the same name. The settings of these switches is compared to
	the bits in headers in order to provide a measure of protection.

	FLAG bit "Data Transfer Mode" is likely taken from/must match the
	C4 control character.

	The FLAG bits TLR and DEFECTIVE TRACK do not seem to have any way
	to set from commands or other sources, unless they are specified
	in the data stream.

Therefor, a format operation must include the header characters in the
data stream.  Assert that the first 9 characters will contain the header,
the remaining characters are the record contents.  Minimal data required
in data stream would be the FLAG character, although DL may also be
necessary. Head selection (track/surface) may require that (at least)
the TT field be loaded into the address register (from data stream
or manually).

WRITE INITIAL: format record immmediately after index mark.
	(EXTENDED: multiple records are formatted based on header)

WRITE: format record under current head position.
	(EXTENDED: multiple records are formatted based on header)

READ INITIAL: read header and data from record immediately after index.
	(EXTENDED: continue reading *data* from subsequent records, until RM)

READ: read header and data from next record record encountered under current head position.
	(EXTENDED: continue reading *data* from subsequent records, until RM)

Assertion: Data returned by READ [INITIAL] is identical to data provided to WRITE [INITIAL].

Formatting data layout:

	   [FLAG] <--- A-field of PDT
	   [CC]
	   [TT]
	   [RR]
	   [DL]
	   [record data] (DL chars)
	   [record data] (DL chars) <--- Only if EXTENDED
	   ... (DL chars) <------------- ...
	RM [x]

	If not EXTENDED, transfer ends after DL characters even if no RM.
	Transfer may end prematurely if RM is sensed.
	NOTE: A partial record may be transferred with EXTENDED.

Normal Disk I/O:

Normal data access uses the SEARCH AND READ/WRITE [NEXT] operations. Only
the data portion of the record is transferred. For READ, the TLR function
(indicator) is set according to the TLR bit of the record's header.
EXTENDED means that multiple records may be read or written, in order to
fill/use all characters up to RM.

Q: How does a SEARCH AND WRITE operation ensure it does not overrun a TLR? 
Is a TLR protected from SEARCH AND WRITE operations? If the controller
does the linking automatically, then a TLR is never a candidate for
SEARCH AND WRITE operations.

Pseudo Code:

Format:
	1. Seek to desired cylinder.
	2. setup record with header (and RM?).
	3. (?) Load address register.
	4. Issue WRITE (or WRITE INITIAL).
	5. Wait for completion.
	6. Repeat to (2) for each addition data record.
	7. Setup Track Linking Record with header (and RM?).
	8. (?) Load address register.
	9. Issue WRITE.
	10. Wait for completion.
	11. Repeat to step (2) for additional tracks.
	12. Repeat to step (1) for additional cylinders.

	If physical records are being written in a (different) logical
	order, the above sequence is modified in that the TLR write may
	not be the last on a track.

Presumably, TLR would not exist at end of file (or end of file data in
cylinder). File/Directory/Volume meta-formatting is not included in the
above steps.

Read Data:
	1. (?) Setup RM at end of buffer.
	2. Load address register. *
	3. Issue SEARCH AND READ [NEXT] *
	4. Wait for completion.

Write Data:
	1. (?) Setup RM at end of buffer.
	2. Load address register. *
	3. Issue SEARCH AND WRITE [NEXT] *
	4. Wait for completion.

* For NEXT operations, presumably the RR field of the Address Register
  is auto-incremented, and thus no loading of address register is required.

Documentation implies that a "block", consisting of multiple disk records,
may be transferred in one operation - and that block may span tracks
via TLRs - but it is not clear how that is communicated through a PDT
instruction. Perhaps the controller keeps following TLR records until
it encounters a RM in memory.  Again, there seems to be no way to drive
that in control characters of PDT.  The documentation also implies that
TLRs cannot be used to link records on different cylinders. So, absense
of a TLR may simply indicate that the particular file has no more data
in that cylinder, and the file directory information must be consulted
to find more data. There is no information about File or Volume meta
data, that seems to be entirely up to the software (OS). It would seem
like a File directory entry would contain a list of addresses (CCTTRR)
which specify the start of chunks of data.

Unclear if this "block" behavior extends to formatting operations.


